README.md, before:

# High-performance AWS lambda with asynchronous Python

A template for building a high-performance Python function in AWS lambda using asyncio, aiohttp and aiobotocore. Data processing pipeline. 

## Overview

This template demonstrates how to build and test a lambda function which runs HTTP requests and AWS actions concurrently to achieve fast and cheap lambda execution. The [src/](./src) directory contains two example scripts which scrape bitcoin news from online sources and publish aggregated documents to S3. The output of the scripts is simple but they demonstrate a pattern for concurrent Python using [asyncio](https://docs.python.org/3/library/asyncio.html), [aiohttp](https://docs.aiohttp.org/en/stable/) and [aiobotocore](https://github.com/aio-libs/aiobotocore). You can see an example of the documents produced by this lambda in the test [fixtures](./tests/fixtures/documents).

The main lambda handler in [src/index.py](src/index.py) demonstrates how to run any number of asynchronous scripts concurrently while handling exceptions gracefully. If an exception occurs within an individual script then a global exception will be raised only after all other scripts have completed. A detailed traceback is logged for debugging purposes.

This repository also includes a CloudFormation template which can be used to deploy the lambda and S3 infrastructure on AWS with appropriate IAM policies.

## Setup

Clone this repository and install [Python 3.7+](https://www.python.org/downloads/). Then, create an isolated Python environment at the root of the project using virtualenv:

```
python3 -m venv venv
```

Activate the virtual environment:

```
source venv/bin/activate
```

You'll also need to configure your IDE to use the virtual environment (this should be auto configured in VS Code by the [.vscode/settings.json](.vscode/settings.json) file).

## Install

Install the Python modules required for development:

```
pip -r install requirements-dev.txt
pip -r install requirements-prod.txt
```

The Python modules will be installed inside a local `site-packages` directory maintained by the virtual environment. This will help to keep the project isolated from other Python projects on your machine.

## Run the tests

This project uses `pytest` to run a suite of integration tests which are designed to run as much application code as possible while mocking the external HTTP and AWS calls. The tests use [aioresponses](https://github.com/pnuckowski/aioresponses) to mock async HTTP requests and the builtin module `unittest` to patch the aiobotocore module. Run the tests:

```
pytest
```

You can run the debugger in VS Code by setting a breakpoint and running the `Python: Module` launch configuration.

## Infrastructure

To provision the lambda and S3 infrastructure on AWS you'll need to visit the CloudFormation service in the AWS console and upload the stack template declared in [template.json](template.json). This will create a lambda component and S3 bucket with appropriate IAM policies.

## Deployment

To deploy the source code to the lambda component you'll need to zip the contents of the `src/` directory and include any 3rd party Python modules required in production. Run:

```
make package
```

This will make a fresh install of the production requirements into a `dist/` directory and will copy in the contents of the `src/` directory. The `dist/` directory is zipped to produce `dist.zip` which can be deployed to the lambda component via upload in the AWS console.

> For a smaller deployment package you could configure a [lambda layer with aiobotocore installed](https://github.com/keithrozario/Klayers/blob/master/deployments/python3.8/arns/eu-west-1.csv). The aiobotocore and aiohttp dependencies can then be removed from `requirements-prod.txt`.

## Q&A

#### What's AWS lambda?

AWS lambda is a software environment which lets you run code without having to provision or manage you're own server. To develop a lambda you only need to implement a function (the handler) to be called when the lambda is invoked.

Lambdas are connected to the AWS ecosystem and can be configured to run on a schedule or be triggered by a REST API call or by another AWS event such as SNS message or S3 upload. Lambda comes with a simple interface for monitoring performance and editing the function code on the fly.

With AWS Lambda you only pay for the execution time you consume so if your code is fast and efficient then it can be very cheap to run.

Commit message:

add features section to README

README.md, after:

# High-performance AWS lambda with asynchronous Python 🐍

_A template for building a high-performance Python function in AWS lambda using asyncio, aiohttp and aiobotocore. Perfect for a data processing pipeline._ 

## Features

- High-performance asynchronous Python 
- Serverless AWS lambda handler (cheap & flexible)
- Integration test setup with HTTP and AWS mocks
- CloudFormation template for AWS infrastructure deployment 
- Step-by-step guide to setup, install, test and deploy 

## Overview

This template demonstrates how to build and test a lambda function which runs HTTP requests and AWS actions concurrently to achieve fast and cheap lambda execution. The [src/](./src) directory contains two example scripts which scrape bitcoin news from online sources and publish aggregated documents to S3. The output of the scripts is simple but they demonstrate a pattern for concurrent Python using [asyncio](https://docs.python.org/3/library/asyncio.html), [aiohttp](https://docs.aiohttp.org/en/stable/) and [aiobotocore](https://github.com/aio-libs/aiobotocore). You can see an example of the documents produced by this lambda in the test [fixtures](./tests/fixtures/documents).

The main lambda handler in [src/index.py](src/index.py) demonstrates how to run any number of asynchronous scripts concurrently while handling exceptions gracefully. If an exception occurs within an individual script then a global exception will be raised only after all other scripts have completed. A detailed traceback is logged for debugging purposes.

This repository also includes a CloudFormation template which can be used to deploy the lambda and S3 infrastructure on AWS with appropriate IAM policies.

## Setup

Clone this repository and install [Python 3.7+](https://www.python.org/downloads/). Then, create an isolated Python environment at the root of the project using virtualenv:

```
python3 -m venv venv
```

Activate the virtual environment:

```
source venv/bin/activate
```

You'll also need to configure your IDE to use the virtual environment (this should be auto configured in VS Code by the [.vscode/settings.json](.vscode/settings.json) file).

## Install

Install the Python modules required for development:

```
pip -r install requirements-dev.txt
pip -r install requirements-prod.txt
```

The Python modules will be installed inside a local `site-packages` directory maintained by the virtual environment. This will help to keep the project isolated from other Python projects on your machine.

## Run the tests

This project uses `pytest` to run a suite of integration tests which are designed to run as much application code as possible while mocking the external HTTP and AWS calls. The tests use [aioresponses](https://github.com/pnuckowski/aioresponses) to mock async HTTP requests and the builtin module `unittest` to patch the aiobotocore module. Run the tests:

```
pytest
```

You can run the debugger in VS Code by setting a breakpoint and running the `Python: Module` launch configuration.

## Infrastructure

To provision the lambda and S3 infrastructure on AWS you'll need to visit the CloudFormation service in the AWS console and upload the stack template declared in [template.json](template.json). This will create a lambda component and S3 bucket with appropriate IAM policies.

## Deployment

To deploy the source code to the lambda component you'll need to zip the contents of the `src/` directory and include any 3rd party Python modules required in production. Run:

```
make package
```

This will make a fresh install of the production requirements into a `dist/` directory and will copy in the contents of the `src/` directory. The `dist/` directory is zipped to produce `dist.zip` which can be deployed to the lambda component via upload in the AWS console.

> For a smaller deployment package you could configure a [lambda layer with aiobotocore installed](https://github.com/keithrozario/Klayers/blob/master/deployments/python3.8/arns/eu-west-1.csv). The aiobotocore and aiohttp dependencies can then be removed from `requirements-prod.txt`.

## Q&A

#### What's AWS lambda?

AWS lambda is a software environment which lets you run code without having to provision or manage you're own server. To develop a lambda you only need to implement a function (the handler) to be called when the lambda is invoked.

Lambdas are connected to the AWS ecosystem and can be configured to run on a schedule or be triggered by a REST API call or by another AWS event such as SNS message or S3 upload. Lambda comes with a simple interface for monitoring performance and editing the function code on the fly.

With AWS Lambda you only pay for the execution time you consume so if your code is fast and efficient then it can be very cheap to run.
